[Music]
so one day I was sitting at the airport
counting the cash I just pickpocketed no
not really
just checking whether you were paying
attention and I noticed a couple of
planes parked side-by-side near the
terminal they looked almost the same but
one of them had a rounded nose while the
other one was pointed well it got me to
thinking what's the difference who knows
most commercial aircraft for example the
mammoth Airbus a380 which can seat up to
868 passengers or the somewhat smaller
Boeing 747 have blunt noses on the other
hand several models of passenger
airliners have sharp noses
and all military airplanes have pointed
noses let me get straight to the point
the manufacturers decide on the shape of
a plane's nose depending on the speed at
which it's going to travel there are two
types of planes subsonic meaning their
speed is slower than the speed of sound
and supersonic the ones that fly faster
than you know what subsonic planes are
equipped with a rounded nose during the
flight it allows the air to move around
the airplane more freely in other words
when an airplane with a blunt nose
pushes the year it rolls over the
fuselage without any serious resistance
now what would happen if a supersonic
plane had a blunt nose well imagine a
machine that's flying at breakneck speed
to be precise at a speed of more than
767 miles per hour which is how fast
sound travels when the air first meets
the rounded nose of a subsonic plane it
produces a shock wave if you're not
flying very fast well relatively it
doesn't matter but at hypersonic speeds
the created shock would be too strong
and could possibly lead to big problems
including serious damage to the fuselage
the solution turned out to be quite
simple to build supersonic aircraft with
sharp pointed noses this way the
airplane manages to minimize the
resistance caused by the shock after the
speed of sound is reached for example
just look at the famous Concorde plane
which stopped flying only in 2003 with
its pointed nose this supersonic
passenger airliner could fly at a
maximum speed of more than twice the
speed of sound
however there's another curious thing
about supersonic jets not only do they
need to have a pointed nose but they
also have to be made out of a
super-strong material the faster a plane
flies after passing the sound barrier
the hotter it becomes that's why some of
the fastest aircraft are made of
titanium this material doesn't deform or
melt at the blistering speeds they reach
on the other hand should a plane
accelerate to the speed of a spacecraft
it would become so hot that even
titanium wouldn't be able to hold up so
how do spacecraft deal with this problem
by having blunt noses I know it may
sound paradoxical but in their case the
rounded nose helps them to create a bow
shaped shock wave after reaching
supersonic speeds this kind of shock
wave also starts in the front of a
spacecraft but doesn't actually touch it
as a result the material a spacecraft is
made of doesn't heat up as much as it
would with a pointed nose at the same
time rounded noses have one serious
drawback the spacecraft equipped with
them consume too much fuel which costs a
lot of money
that's why manufacturers only equip
space shuttles with blunt noses if they
absolutely have to so would you like to
fly a supersonic jet with a pointed nose
tell me your opinion in the comment
section below in any case there's a
chance that in several decades it won't
matter whether a plane has appointed or
a blunt nose because aircraft might
start to look totally different
altogether for example according to one
of the predictions planes in the future
might come without windows whatsoever
it'll supposedly make the fuselage
stronger which in turn will allow
aircraft to fly at incredible speeds
likewise air travel is likely to become
much greener by 2050
thanks to commercial airplanes becoming
fully electric it would cut down on
harmful greenhouse gas emissions and
save tons of money on fuel besides
electric planes would be much quieter
than the ones flying today currently the
main goal is to create a battery that
would be able to power an airplane
throughout the whole flight
and at the same time this battery
shouldn't be insanely heavy or massive
unfortunately right now manufacturers
don't have the technology that would
combine these two requirements also in
several decades planes might lose their
tails should airliners become electric
they could be equipped with a special
system that would provide thrust in any
needed direction not only backwards like
today as a result there wouldn't be any
more need for additional control pieces
including the tail another change in the
aircraft of the future may relate to the
material they'd be made of the problem
is that the heavier the plane is the
more fuel it needs to fly and the more
expensive the flights are that's why at
some point you might witness aluminum
planes turning into carbon-fiber ones
one of the benefits of building planes
from carbon-fiber is the engineers would
be able to extend the wings vertically
which would mean additional efficiency
during the fly also the plane shell
would be way tougher this way if a stray
bird crashed into the airliner
it wouldn't even leave a small dent
there might also be some unusual looking
and oddly shaped aircraft for example
the airplanes of the future might get a
box wing design engineer's claim that
this idea would become reality thanks to
super-lightweight nonmetallic materials
that could be used during construction
the Box wing design could make future
plane's engines five times more
effective than the ones used today
another cool aircraft project is called
the sky whale this plane might easily
become the largest passenger airliner
ever it would dwarf the biggest plane of
our times the Airbus a380 800 which
typically seats 575 passengers the sky
whale would be able to transport 755
passengers at a time it would have three
passenger decks and several viewing
platforms upstairs interestingly even
with such impressive characteristics the
future mammoth aircraft would use less
fuel and produce significantly less
noise what's more airport runways
wouldn't have to
any longer the planes powerful engines
would allow the machine to take off with
more power anyway
experts say that while the construction
of the sky well isn't likely to start
anytime soon all the components
necessary for building this giant can
easily be manufactured one more idea is
a plane with massive wings which would
have the body built into them
theoretically this innovation is
supposed to make the plane more
aerodynamic the engines of such a flying
machine would be turbo electric that's
the most effective way to make them
greener and to minimize the amount of
noise they would produce as for the
shape of the plane it might look more
like a UFO or a triangle which would
reduce the drag during takeoff and save
precious fuel and now how do you feel
about the Flying V aircraft admittedly
this machine doesn't look like anything
you've ever seen before on the other
hand such an unusual shape is supposed
to make the planes super energy
efficient also the v-shaped aircraft
would be able to travel ultra long-haul
distances the main peculiarities of this
airliner
is that the passenger cabin fuel tanks
and cargo hauled would be in the wings
which would give the plane an exciting
form at 180 feet long the plane would
save 314 passengers sorry
no mention here about the legroom and
the best thing about the Flying V there
would be no need to change the airport's
infrastructure for example hangars Gates
or runways this airliner wouldn't take
up any more space so whether it's blunt
or pointed now you knows hey if you
learn something new today then give this
video a like and share with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
you